update docs to include methods to fix missing wal (#442)
hyperledger/fabric: docs/source/raft_configuration.md

## Troubleshooting

1. The more stress you put on your nodes, the more you might have to change certain
parameters. As with any system, computer or mechanical, stress can lead to a drag
in performance. As we noted in the conceptual documentation, leader elections in

> Raft are triggered when follower nodes do not receive either a "heartbeat"

Reviewer: `either a "heartbeat" messages or an "append" message`

I think that should be `a "heartbeat" message or an "append" message`

part of the consenter set in many channels, you might want to lengthen the amount
of time it takes to trigger an election to avoid inadvertent leader elections.

2. As aforementioned, write-ahead logs (wal) and snapshots should be persisted in

> order to attain safety proerty of Raft protocol. However, it may happen if a node

Reviewer 2: property?

loses its data by accident, and the node would panic with following message:
```
tocommit(X) is out of range [lastIndex(Y)]. Was the raft log corrupted, truncated, or lost?
```

> Human intervention is required to resurrect problematic node in this case:

Reviewer 2: IMO, changing to "Manual operation would be required..."

> - Option 1: remove node and readd it to consenter set via config update, following

Reviewer 2: read

> - Option 1: remove node and readd it to consenter set via config update, following

Reviewer 3: re-add

instructions in reconfiguration section in this doc. This is the most appropriate
option and does not violate safety property of Raft protocol.

> - Option 2: wipe out wal and snapshot directories of problematic channel, restart

Reviewer 3: of problematic channel **in the problematic node**.

> current leader node, then restart corrupted orderer. This essentially treats corrupted

Reviewer 3: i think we first need to restart the corrupted orderer, no? What if the leader is restarted and then the node says its index is high because it still hasn't been restarted?

Author: When this problem occurs, the corrupted node should already be down due to panic, therefore not very important to emphasize on the order.

orderer as a fresh node without any data.
- Option 3: to avoid downtime caused by restarting leader node, you could also wipe out

> wal and snapshot directories of problematic channel, and copy a snapshot from an alive node

Reviewer 3: of problematic channel **from the corrupted node**

with greater index than X in above panic message. The index can be inferred from snapshot
file names, for example `0000000000000002-0000000000000006.snap` stores a snapshot with
index 6. Then start node and wait for it to catch up.

> Note: option 2&3 do violate safety property of Raft protocol and should be used with caution.

Reviewer 2: and this makes me wonder why would be enlist 2 and 3 if both violates safety? is there a practical use case where users will choose 2 or 3 over the first one?

Author: the first one is fairly heavy as it affects all the channels that this node participates in. Added some text to document this reason.

Reviewer 2: but @guoger don't you agree that option 3 could potentially cause more damage?

Author: @C0rWin I think the potential damage they have is the same - chain being forked in extreme cases. However the advantage that option 3 has over option 2 is reduced downtime, especially for 3 node clusters. This is the main reason i think it's worth to document option 3. wdyt?

part of the consenter set in many channels, you might want to lengthen the amount
of time it takes to trigger an election to avoid inadvertent leader elections.

2. As aforementioned, write-ahead logs (wal) and snapshots should be persisted in
order to attain safety property of Raft protocol. However, it may happen if a node
loses its data by accident, and the node would panic with following message:
```
tocommit(X) is out of range [lastIndex(Y)]. Was the raft log corrupted, truncated, or lost?
```

> Manual operation would be required to resurrect problematic node in this case.

Reviewer 4: I would break this section into two perhaps?

Safe recovery:
The only way to handle the corruption or loss of a WAL is to remove the corrupted consenter from the quorum, and add a new one in its place.  ...

Unsafe recovery: 

It is possible to recover from a WAL corruption without removing the consenter from the consenter set and re-adding it.  However, these procedures violate the Raft protocol safety guarantees and, in certain unlikely cases, could result in a blockchain fork.  To minimize these possibilities, ensure that your cluster has quorum on all channels for a few minutes before proceeding. (I think this is good enough? We just need a quorum to advance the index via heartbeats past any possible conflicting index in the broken node's WAL, right?)

Option 1: ...

Option 2: ...

part of the consenter set in many channels, you might want to lengthen the amount
of time it takes to trigger an election to avoid inadvertent leader elections.

2. As aforementioned, write-ahead logs (wal) and snapshots should be persisted in

> order to attain safety property of Raft protocol. However, it may happen if a node

Reviewer 5: Is the abbreviation wal or WAL? It's used both ways in this section.

Author: changed all to be WAL

> order to attain safety property of Raft protocol. However, it may happen if a node

Reviewer 6: I'm not sure what "safety property" means in this context. Is "safety" an actual thing or a concept (safe recovery)?

Author: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Safety_property

> order to attain safety property of Raft protocol. However, it may happen if a node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
order to attain safety property of Raft protocol. However, if a node
```

> loses its data by accident, and the node would panic with following message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
loses its data by accident, the node would panic with following message:
```

```
tocommit(X) is out of range [lastIndex(Y)]. Was the raft log corrupted, truncated, or lost?
```

> Manual operation would be required to resurrect problematic node in this case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manual intervention is required to recover the problematic node.
```

* Safe recovery:  
The only way to handle the corruption or loss of a WAL is to remove the corrupted

> consenter from the quorum, and add a new one in its place, which can be done following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consenter from the quorum and add a new one in its place. This can be accomplished by following
```

> instructions in reconfiguration section in this doc. This is the most appropriate

Reviewer 6: following the instructions in the reconfiguration section of this topic

> the instructions in the reconfiguration section in this doc. This is the most appropriate

Reviewer: doclink/ref?

> the instructions in the reconfiguration section in this doc. This is the most appropriate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the instructions in the reconfiguration section in this doc. This is generally the best
```

> option, as it does not violate safety property of Raft protocol. However, this is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
option as it does not violate safety property of Raft protocol. However, this is
```

> operation and affects all channels this node participates in.

Reviewer 5: However, this is an expensive operation

> operation and affects all channels this node participates in.

Reviewer 6: Again, not sure what "safety property" means here. Do you mean something like "does not violate the safe operation of a Raft ordering service" or "does not violate the integrity of the ordering service"?

* Unsafe recovery:  
It is possible to recover from a WAL corruption without removing the consenter from the
consenter set and re-adding it. However, these procedures violate the Raft protocol safety

> guarantees and, in certain unlikely cases, could result in a blockchain fork. To minimize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
guarantees and could result in a blockchain fork. To minimize
```

I feel it's more appropriate to use language that implies a higher risk.

these possibilities, ensure that your cluster has quorum on all channels for a few minutes
before proceeding.

>   * Option 1: delete WAL and snapshot directories of problematic channel from the corrupted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Option 1: delete WAL and snapshot directories of the problematic channel from the corrupted
```

node, restart current leader node, then start corrupted orderer. This essentially treats
corrupted orderer as a fresh node without any data. This is the simplest option that requires

> restarting leader node, which often leads to system downtime.

Reviewer: How about 

While this is the simplest option, restarting leader node often leads to system downtime.

>   * Option 2: to avoid downtime caused by restarting leader node, you could also delete the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Option 2: to avoid downtime caused by restarting the leader node, you could also delete the
```

> WAL and snapshot directories of problematic channel from the corrupted node, and then copy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WAL and snapshot directories of the problematic channel from the corrupted node, and then copy
```

> a snapshot from an alive node with greater index than `X` in above panic message. The index

Reviewer 5: Option 2: To avoid downtime caused by restarting the leader node, you could also delete the
wal and snapshot directories of the problematic channel from the corrupted node, and then copy
a snapshot from an alive node with an index greater than `X` in above panic message.

Reviewer 6: Why are we documenting an unsafe practice we explicitly don't recommend?

Author: The unsafe options are significantly simpler and the risk is fairly low. We do not explicitly recommend one over another (and we do have some sentences saying how to lower the probability of chain fork). But we definitely should document the risk, to be complete.

Reviewer 6: Why wouldn't we explicitly recommend the safe path? 

I still think telling people how to do something we're calling "unsafe" is a bad idea.

Author: That's definitely a valid concern. IMHO though, explicit "use with caution" is better than "hidden feature", especially when the safe option does introduce tremendous amount of overhead, and the unsafe option is actually not very unsafe. I think this is still a handy solution to most of users.

@jyellick what do you think?

> a snapshot from an alive node with greater index than `X` in above panic message. The index

Reviewer 7: Should the snapshot be copied only from the leader node here?
Besides, out of this topic, it might be a good idea to have orderer provided some command to rollback its local ledger to some height and then re-track, like the peer does today.

Author: it can be copied from either leader or other followers. as for orderer ledger rollback, i believe it's addressing a different problem other than corrupted WAL. But since we are here, what use cases do you have in mind?

Reviewer 3: > it might be a good idea to have orderer provided some command to rollback its local ledger to some height and then re-track, like the peer does today.

Fabric guarantees block finality. We can't revert blocks, otherwise peers would get forked.

> a snapshot from an alive node with an index greater than `X` in above panic message. The index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a snapshot from a live node with an index greater than `X` in above panic message. The index
```

can be inferred from snapshot file names, for example `0000000000000002-0000000000000006.snap`
stores a snapshot with index 6. Then, start corrupt node and wait for it to catch up.

> 

Reviewer 5: Should this be Then, restart the corrupted node and wait for it to catch up.

Author: corrupt -> corrupted: done

it should be start instead of restart, cuz the corrupted node actually panics and could not be running
